AIGAME

About:

To anyone whos not me: this project is in prototype/design phase.

AIGAME is a personal project for exploring graph theory, aglorithms, machine learning, and ?pattern emergence? eg swarm behavior, game of life. The aim is to develop a fun tool for exploring causality, where users can define a world and elements that exist within the world and their behaviors. This tool would provide a unique opportunity for exploring fundamental ideas in computer science and math in a visual and fun way. It would be cool to interface with tensorflow and experiment with neural networks, machine learning, and objective functions and weighting. It would also be cool to further abstract the board to a nested graph (hypernode).

Using AIGAME, the following could be experimented with:
	- Markov Chains and Monte Carlo Simulations
		-define large elements 
	- Signal Processing and Noise Filtering
	- Statistics and Statistical Mechanics
	- Sorting and Searching Algorithms
	- Superorganism emulation
	- Simplistic quantum physics emulation 
	- Objective declarations and objective function definitions and weightings
 	- Hypergraphs

Details:

	- board is a 2d array / graph complex. adjacent array indices are connected by edges in the graph
	- the board's nodes contain blocks, which are themselves a container of elements.
	- the blocks compose a set of element types and their respective counts.
	- elements are objects with user-defined behaviors that exist within and traverse the blocks
	- elements see the world through the blocks but they cannot see the blocks themselves

Aims:

	- configurable, possibly dynamic, event stack

Thoughts:

	- current quantum physics is modelled with probability (heisenberg principle is the classic) because we are physically incapable (although some philosphers would argue allegedly) of resolving such a fine detail of our reality. people always ask how can light exhibit both particle and wavelike behavior? The short answer is that particles are a macroscopic result of waves. A quantum particle is described by a standing wave function, where   
		-degrees of freedom to wave function that describes its probability density function for its existence. 

			heisenberg uncertainty: fundamental limit to knowing complementary variables such as position and momentum

			modeling subatomic particle behavior as emergence of patterns from nonvisible elements


		only so many elements may exist in one block, so block will act upon elements, which influences element behavior
		elements may venture out of their blocks by a limited distance, and are constrained to return in some way
		blocks may swap without elements awareness, and paired elements may be lost from each other but still search as if through quantum entanglement / superposition







decrypting quantum physics
	- if physical reality can be described as a turing machine, meaning that every event is deterministic 



Classes:

	World	
	Engine	
	Board
	Block
	Element

Concepts:
	
	Event Stack
	Behavior
	Action
	Resolve Block
	Resolve World
	Objective/Task
	Obstacles

Data Model: 
	
	World:
		Engine:
			Element Propose Action Functions
			Element Perform Action Functions
			Block Resolve Elements Functions
			World Resolve Blocks Functions
		Board:
			Blocks
				Elements

		
Event Stack: (not necessarily in this order)

	Element Proposes Action
	Element Performs Action
	Block Resolves Elements
	World Resolves Blocks











Concepts:

	Elements read their environment and propose a behavior while the world constrains the elements' actions to its physics. The world physics defines how blocks and elements within those blocks are updated, while the elements attempt to navigate the world without seeing the physics. Iteresting relationships of physics vs behavior could be explored.


To think about:
	
	rigid vs dynamic elements, probabilistic actions, property quantization
	board positions can hold multiple elements

	change order of the event stack


Task Examples:

	1. Define a set of elements size<4 that can traverse a world that is hindering them to reach a destination. 

		obstacles: 
			sorting algorithms
			noise

		constraints:
			one and only one element can be a path finder, and can only emit one signal

	2. 2 players compete to collect items on the board. they each define a set of elements size<X with the goal that their elements can collect more items
		-modelling ant behavior
		-defining scouts, workers, eg

	3. 2 players compete, where 1 presents a world, task, and constraints, and the other must present a set of elements that can complete the task


  blocks that exist within the world and their behavior, and the behavior of blocks that exist within the world. that exist within the world. and element behaviors using fundamental computer science and math concepts. environment for experimenting with key computer science ideas in an accessible and fun manner.




element proposes action
world physics occurs
element behavior occurs (constraint to world physics)


e.g. traverse a sort world

1. elements propose a behavior
2. world transforms elements
3. elements perform behavior
4. world resolves conflicts in behavior (eg walking into walls, other elements)

1. elements propose a move to reach a destination
2. world performs transformation of elements and board (change positions, speed direction, etc)
3. element performs its proposed action

basic visualization of quantum physics (quantized iteracting states)
monte carlo simulations



for now, block can contain only one of each element



Data Structure:

Game:
	an instance of a board, physics engine, and elements list

World:
	a board and its physics engine

Board:
	a 2d array graph

Element:
	a "worker unit" that exists on the board, but does not see the physics engine. it observes the board and proposes actions

Action:
	an element can propose and perform an action. possible actions may be limited depending on the element's type

Block:
	a position node on a Board. a block contains a list of the elements

World Physics:
	transformations of the blocks on the board

Block Physics:
	transformations of the elements in the block

Behavior:
	describes the actions of an element





Board is a NxM grid of Blocks
Blocks have a State and contain Elements which have a State
Elements observe the Board and propose an Action
World Physics is Applied, Element actions are checked, Board is resolved 
(actions performed, block states updated)